============================
RB Gateway 2.0 Release Notes
============================

**Release date**: TBD


New Features
============

* Added support for bcrypt-encoded passwords in the htpasswd file.

  Plain-text passwords continue to work, but bcrypt hashes are now the
  recommended way to store credentials. These can be created with
  :command:`htpasswd -B`.

* Added a configurable timeout on outbound webhook deliveries.

  Previously, a slow or unresponsive Review Board server (or any other
  webhook target) could tie up rb-gateway goroutines indefinitely. Webhook
  HTTP requests now time out so transient networking issues no longer back
  up the service.

* Switched logging over to structured logging via ``slog``.

  Log records now carry key/value fields rather than free-form strings,
  making them easier to parse and forward to log aggregators.


Bug Fixes
=========

* Fixed a crash when listing branches for Mercurial repositories with no
  bookmarks. (:bug:`4792`)

* Fixed startup when ``webhooks.json`` is missing or empty.

  rb-gateway used to fail to start if the configured webhook store file
  did not exist. It will now start with an empty webhook store in this
  case. (:bug:`4721`)

* Fixed parsing of empty ``tokens.dat`` files.

  An empty token store file is now treated as an empty store rather than
  a parse error.


Modernization and Internals
===========================

A large portion of this release is internal cleanup that reduces the
external dependency footprint and brings the codebase up to modern Go
conventions. None of these should be visible to users of the service:

* Replaced ``gorilla/mux`` with the standard library's
  ``net/http.ServeMux``.

* Replaced ``kingpin`` with the standard library's ``flag`` package for
  CLI argument parsing.

* Replaced ``go-http-auth`` with a custom HTTP Basic auth middleware.

* Replaced the unmaintained ``gohg`` package with direct invocation of
  the ``hg`` command.

* Replaced the deprecated ``io/ioutil`` APIs with their modern
  equivalents (``io.ReadAll``, ``os.ReadFile``, ``os.WriteFile``,
  ``os.MkdirTemp``, ``os.CreateTemp``).

* Updated ``go-git`` and other dependencies to address several published
  CVEs and a runtime-panic advisory in ``go-git`` 5.17.0.



Contributors
============

* Beth Rennie
* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
* Michelle Aubin
